starter/agentic/design/README.md, before:

# Agentic Workflow Graph

``` mermaid
---
config:
    theme: dark
    flowchart:
        curve: linear
---

graph LR;

    subgraph layout_container[" "]
        direction LR

        __start__([<p>__start__</p>]):::first

        subgraph Knowledgebase_Sync
            direction LR    

            Knowledgebase_Sync__sync_cultpass_experiences{{Knowledgebase_MCP::sync_cultpass_experiences}}:::tool
            Knowledgebase_Sync__sync_udahub_knowledgebase{{Knowledgebase_MCP::sync_udahub_knowledgebase}}:::tool
        end

        subgraph Validation
            direction LR

            Validation__create_udahub_user{{UDAHub_MCP::create_udahub_user}}:::tool
            Validation__find_udahub_user{{UDAHub_MCP::find_udahub_user}}:::tool
            Validation__get_cultpass_user{{Cultpass_MCP::get_cultpass_user}}:::tool
        end

        subgraph Enrichment
            direction LR    
        end

        subgraph Supervisor
            direction LR
        end

        subgraph Read_Message
            direction LR
        end

        subgraph Send_Message
            direction LR    
        end

        subgraph Reservation
            direction LR

            Reservation__get_cultpass_reservations{{Cultpass_MCP::get_cultpass_reservations}}:::tool
            Reservation__cancel_cultpass_reservation{{Cultpass_MCP::cancel_cultpass_reservation}}:::tool
            Reservation__make_cultpass_reservation{{Cultpass_MCP::make_cultpass_reservation}}:::tool
        end

        subgraph Subscription
            direction LR

            Subscription__get_cultpass_user{{UDAHub_MCP::get_cultpass_user}}:::tool
            Subscription__cancel_cultpass_subscription{{UDAHub_MCP::cancel_cultpass_subscription}}:::tool
            Subscription__reactivate_cultpass_subscription{{UDAHub_MCP::reactivate_cultpass_subscription}}:::tool
            Subscription__upgrade_cultpass_subscription{{UDAHub_MCP::upgrade_cultpass_subscription}}:::tool
        end

        subgraph Browsing
            direction LR

            Browsing__query_cultpass_experiences{{UDAHub_MCP::query_cultpass_experiences}}:::tool
            Browsing__get_cultpass_experience{{Cultpass_MCP::get_cultpass_experience}}:::tool
        end

        subgraph FAQ
            direction LR

            FAQ__query_udahub_knowledgebase{{UDAHub_MCP::query_udahub_knowledgebase}}:::tool
        end

        subgraph Escalate_to_Human
            direction LR
        end

        subgraph Memorization
            direction LR

            Memorization__sync_cultpass_experiences{{Knowledgebase_MCP::sync_cultpass_experiences}}:::tool
            Memorization__sync_udahub_knowledgebase{{Knowledgebase_MCP::sync_udahub_knowledgebase}}:::tool
        end

        subgraph Knowledgebase_Learning
            direction LR    
        end
        
        __end__([<p>__end__</p>]):::last

        __start__ --> Knowledgebase_Sync;
        Knowledgebase_Sync --> Validation;
        Validation --> Enrichment;
        Enrichment --> Supervisor;

        Supervisor -.-> Read_Message;
        Read_Message --> Supervisor;

        Supervisor -.-> Send_Message;
        Send_Message --> Supervisor;

        Supervisor -.-> Reservation;
        Reservation --> Supervisor;

        Supervisor -.-> Subscription;
        Subscription --> Supervisor;

        Supervisor -.-> Browsing;
        Browsing --> Supervisor;

        Supervisor -.-> FAQ;
        FAQ --> Supervisor;

        Supervisor -.-> Escalate_to_Human;
        Escalate_to_Human --> Supervisor;

        Supervisor --> Memorization;    
        Memorization --> Knowledgebase_Learning;
        Knowledgebase_Learning --> __end__;
    end

    subgraph Legend
        direction TB

        Legend__system_agent[System Agent]
        Legend__worker_agent[Worker Agent]:::worker_agent
        Legend__tool{{MCP Tool}}:::tool
    end

classDef tool font-size:90%,line-height:1,stroke:#ffae0c,stroke-width:2px,color:#ffae0c;

classDef worker_agent stroke:#02b3e4,stroke-width:2px,color:#02b3e4;
class Reservation,Subscription,FAQ,Browsing,Escalate_to_Human worker_agent;

%% Make the outer layout subgraph invisible (no fill/border/label)
style layout_container fill:transparent,stroke:transparent,stroke-width:0px;

%% Legend: no fill, dashed border
style Legend fill:transparent,stroke:#fff,stroke-width:1px;

%%	classDef default fill:#f2f0ff,line-height:1.2
%%	classDef first fill-opacity:0
%%	classDef last fill:#bfb6fc

```

## System Agents

The system agents form the framework of the conversation and orchestrate the flow between different worker agents and tools.
Both system and worker agents determine the tools available to them based on tagging and metadata. This allows for a flexible and dynamic assignment of capabilities, ensuring that each agent can only access the tools that are relevant to its function.

### `knowledgebase_sync`
Synchronizes the knowledge base with the latest information from the customer's systems.
This ensures that the agents always have up-to-date information to work with when handling user requests.

| Tool Qualification ||
| --- | --- |
| Tags | `sync` |

### `validation`

Ensures that the requested account is a valid customer of UDA-Hub and also validates the user's identity with the customer's system.
It also ensures that there is a corresponding user account in the UDA Hub database, creating one if necessary.

| Tool Qualification ||
| --- | --- |
| Tags | `validation` |
| Metadata | `author=ACCOUNT_ID` |

### `enrichment`

TODO

### `supervisor`

The central orchestrator that decides what should happen next.
It analyzes the current conversation state and routes control to the most suitable worker agent (or to messaging/escalation) and then regains control once that step is done.

### `read_message`

Asks the user for input when needed and captures their response to be processed by the Supervisor agent and subsequent worked agents.

### `send_message`

Delivers pending agent responses to the chat interface.
It is used whenever the system has something to communicate back to the user and ensures messages are emitted in a consistent way.

### `memorize`

TODO

### `knowledgebase_learning`

TODO



## Worker Agents

The following worker agents are available in UDA-Hub and can be used to enables complex, real-world agentic workflows.
The Supervisor agent decides (based on the conversation context) which worker agent should take the next step.
Each worker agent has a clearly scoped set of tools and a dedicated focus.
The customer decides which worker agents are plugged in for use based on their needs, and the Supervisor agent ensures that the right one is engaged at the right time.

### `faq`

Answers common questions based on the knowledge base.
This agent primarily uses read-only knowledge tools and asks follow-up questions when context is missing instead of making assumptions.

| Tool Qualification ||
| --- | --- |
| Tags | `faq` |

### `reservation`

Handles everything related to reservations (e.g., viewing, creating, canceling, changing).
Before executing any action that changes state, the agent asks the user for explicit confirmation.

| Tool Qualification ||
| --- | --- |
| Tags | `reservation` |

### `subscription`

Works on subscription-related topics (e.g., checking status, canceling, reactivating, upgrading).
As with reservations, state-changing actions are only executed after clear user confirmation.

| Tool Qualification ||
| --- | --- |
| Tags | `subscription` |

### `browsing`

Helps users browse a customer's offerings/experiences: search, details, comparisons, and recommendations.
The agent can inform and provide context, but it does not perform bookings/reservations itself (that is handled by, e.g., `reservation`).

| Tool Qualification ||
| --- | --- |
| Tags | `browsing` |

### `escalate_to_human`

Fallback agent for cases where the request is outside the available tool capabilities or when a human should take over.
It terminates the chat flow and signals a handoff to a human agent.

Commit message:

Enhance README with detailed descriptions for knowledgebase agents and their functionalities

starter/agentic/design/README.md, after:

# Agentic Workflow Graph

``` mermaid
---
config:
    theme: dark
    flowchart:
        curve: linear
---

graph LR;

    subgraph layout_container[" "]
        direction LR

        __start__([<p>__start__</p>]):::first

        subgraph Knowledgebase_Sync
            direction LR    

            Knowledgebase_Sync__sync_cultpass_experiences{{Knowledgebase_MCP::sync_cultpass_experiences}}:::tool
            Knowledgebase_Sync__sync_udahub_knowledgebase{{Knowledgebase_MCP::sync_udahub_knowledgebase}}:::tool
        end

        subgraph Validation
            direction LR

            Validation__create_udahub_user{{UDAHub_MCP::create_udahub_user}}:::tool
            Validation__find_udahub_user{{UDAHub_MCP::find_udahub_user}}:::tool
            Validation__get_cultpass_user{{Cultpass_MCP::get_cultpass_user}}:::tool
        end

        subgraph Enrichment
            direction LR    
        end

        subgraph Supervisor
            direction LR
        end

        subgraph Read_Message
            direction LR
        end

        subgraph Send_Message
            direction LR    
        end

        subgraph Reservation
            direction LR

            Reservation__get_cultpass_reservations{{Cultpass_MCP::get_cultpass_reservations}}:::tool
            Reservation__cancel_cultpass_reservation{{Cultpass_MCP::cancel_cultpass_reservation}}:::tool
            Reservation__make_cultpass_reservation{{Cultpass_MCP::make_cultpass_reservation}}:::tool
        end

        subgraph Subscription
            direction LR

            Subscription__get_cultpass_user{{UDAHub_MCP::get_cultpass_user}}:::tool
            Subscription__cancel_cultpass_subscription{{UDAHub_MCP::cancel_cultpass_subscription}}:::tool
            Subscription__reactivate_cultpass_subscription{{UDAHub_MCP::reactivate_cultpass_subscription}}:::tool
            Subscription__upgrade_cultpass_subscription{{UDAHub_MCP::upgrade_cultpass_subscription}}:::tool
        end

        subgraph Browsing
            direction LR

            Browsing__query_cultpass_experiences{{UDAHub_MCP::query_cultpass_experiences}}:::tool
            Browsing__get_cultpass_experience{{Cultpass_MCP::get_cultpass_experience}}:::tool
        end

        subgraph FAQ
            direction LR

            FAQ__query_udahub_knowledgebase{{UDAHub_MCP::query_udahub_knowledgebase}}:::tool
        end

        subgraph Escalate_to_Human
            direction LR
        end

        subgraph Memorization
            direction LR

            Memorization__sync_cultpass_experiences{{Knowledgebase_MCP::sync_cultpass_experiences}}:::tool
            Memorization__sync_udahub_knowledgebase{{Knowledgebase_MCP::sync_udahub_knowledgebase}}:::tool
        end

        subgraph Knowledgebase_Learning
            direction LR    
            Knowledgebase_Learning__query_udahub_knowledgebase{{UDAHub_MCP::query_udahub_knowledgebase}}:::tool
        end
        
        __end__([<p>__end__</p>]):::last

        __start__ --> Knowledgebase_Sync;
        Knowledgebase_Sync --> Validation;
        Validation --> Enrichment;
        Enrichment --> Supervisor;

        Supervisor -.-> Read_Message;
        Read_Message --> Supervisor;

        Supervisor -.-> Send_Message;
        Send_Message --> Supervisor;

        Supervisor -.-> Reservation;
        Reservation --> Supervisor;

        Supervisor -.-> Subscription;
        Subscription --> Supervisor;

        Supervisor -.-> Browsing;
        Browsing --> Supervisor;

        Supervisor -.-> FAQ;
        FAQ --> Supervisor;

        Supervisor -.-> Escalate_to_Human;
        Escalate_to_Human --> Supervisor;

        Supervisor --> Memorization;    
        Memorization --> Knowledgebase_Learning;
        Knowledgebase_Learning --> __end__;
    end

    subgraph Legend
        direction TB

        Legend__system_agent[System Agent]
        Legend__worker_agent[Worker Agent]:::worker_agent
        Legend__tool{{MCP Tool}}:::tool
    end

classDef tool font-size:90%,line-height:1,stroke:#ffae0c,stroke-width:2px,color:#ffae0c;

classDef worker_agent stroke:#02b3e4,stroke-width:2px,color:#02b3e4;
class Reservation,Subscription,FAQ,Browsing,Escalate_to_Human worker_agent;

%% Make the outer layout subgraph invisible (no fill/border/label)
style layout_container fill:transparent,stroke:transparent,stroke-width:0px;

%% Legend: no fill, dashed border
style Legend fill:transparent,stroke:#fff,stroke-width:1px;

%%	classDef default fill:#f2f0ff,line-height:1.2
%%	classDef first fill-opacity:0
%%	classDef last fill:#bfb6fc

```

## System Agents

The system agents form the framework of the conversation and orchestrate the flow between different worker agents and tools.
Both system and worker agents determine the tools available to them based on tagging and metadata. This allows for a flexible and dynamic assignment of capabilities, ensuring that each agent can only access the tools that are relevant to its function.

### `knowledgebase_sync`
Synchronizes the knowledge base with the latest information from the customer's systems.
This ensures that the agents always have up-to-date information to work with when handling user requests.

| Tool Qualification ||
| --- | --- |
| Tags | `sync` |

### `validation`

Ensures that the requested account is a valid customer of UDA-Hub and also validates the user's identity with the customer's system.
It also ensures that there is a corresponding user account in the UDA Hub database, creating one if necessary.

| Tool Qualification ||
| --- | --- |
| Tags | `validation` |
| Metadata | `author=ACCOUNT_ID` |

### `enrichment`

If there is a ticket_id provided in the configuration, then this agent retrieves the conversation history linked to that ticket and adds it to the current conversation context.
This allows the system to "remember" past interactions and maintain continuity in the conversation, even if it happens over multiple sessions.

### `supervisor`

The central orchestrator that decides what should happen next.
It analyzes the current conversation state and routes control to the most suitable worker agent (or to messaging/escalation) and then regains control once that step is done.

### `read_message`

Asks the user for input when needed and captures their response to be processed by the Supervisor agent and subsequent worked agents.

### `send_message`

Delivers pending agent responses to the chat interface.
It is used whenever the system has something to communicate back to the user and ensures messages are emitted in a consistent way.

### `memorize`

Creates a ticket including a summary of the conversation and tags. Furthermore the entire conversation history is stored as messages linked to this ticket.
If there is already an existing ticket, then only the new messages are added to that ticket instead.

### `knowledgebase_learning`

Analyzes the conversation tries to identify knoweledge relevant for future conversations and adds it to the knowledge base.
This allows the system to continuously learn and improve over time based on real interactions with users.

This agent is very critical and checks if the identified learnings are not yet part of the knowledge base before adding them, to avoid duplicates and ensure the quality of the knowledge base.



## Worker Agents

The following worker agents are available in UDA-Hub and can be used to enables complex, real-world agentic workflows.
The Supervisor agent decides (based on the conversation context) which worker agent should take the next step.
Each worker agent has a clearly scoped set of tools and a dedicated focus.
The customer decides which worker agents are plugged in for use based on their needs, and the Supervisor agent ensures that the right one is engaged at the right time.

### `faq`

Answers common questions based on the knowledge base.
This agent primarily uses read-only knowledge tools and asks follow-up questions when context is missing instead of making assumptions.

| Tool Qualification ||
| --- | --- |
| Tags | `faq` |

### `reservation`

Handles everything related to reservations (e.g., viewing, creating, canceling, changing).
Before executing any action that changes state, the agent asks the user for explicit confirmation.

| Tool Qualification ||
| --- | --- |
| Tags | `reservation` |

### `subscription`

Works on subscription-related topics (e.g., checking status, canceling, reactivating, upgrading).
As with reservations, state-changing actions are only executed after clear user confirmation.

| Tool Qualification ||
| --- | --- |
| Tags | `subscription` |

### `browsing`

Helps users browse a customer's offerings/experiences: search, details, comparisons, and recommendations.
The agent can inform and provide context, but it does not perform bookings/reservations itself (that is handled by, e.g., `reservation`).

| Tool Qualification ||
| --- | --- |
| Tags | `browsing` |

### `escalate_to_human`

Fallback agent for cases where the request is outside the available tool capabilities or when a human should take over.
It terminates the chat flow and signals a handoff to a human agent.
